
Hi, my name is Angel, and I'm a Program Manager at Google. I'm a mechanical engineer by degree. My first boss out of school said, "You're an okay engineer, but your people skills are off the charts." Having a technical background and having really good people skills is hard to find. Soft skills to me have a lot to do with emotional intelligence—being able to read other people and then ultimately really knowing yourself—and being able to read the team, read what they need, but then at the same time, what am I doing? Either influencing the team in a good way, in a bad way, or just a different way. Just asking, sometimes, people that don't usually raise their hand to give input goes a long way, because a lot of times the folks that are maybe a little more quiet are genuinely thinking about the problem and may have a lot of insights that if you didn't catch on that or ask them, you could miss out. And so, to me, soft skills just means, just really understanding the emotional needs of the team. That can really help with, whether it's estimations or costs, whether it be labor or dollar-wise, get the full view from the team of what that might look like. When it comes to task estimation and time estimations, the other thing is just asking good questions. Not just, "I need you to go faster," but really saying, "Hey, how much faster could you go if I gave you this? What is stopping you from going faster? What teams would you need to get involved to help this?" or "Hey, we have an issue, are there similar issues in other parts of this project, and do we need to get together in a larger group to bring that together?" I think as a Program Manager that's really your role is to see patterns in a project and see where things are either slowing down or at a complete stop, and having those soft skills to be able to bring the team together to solve that problem, and to even just see it. Just to acknowledge that there is a problem, and instead of blaming is really just digging in, and how do we learn from this? How do we fix this? How do we move on? Some of the things that also help is just relating to your team members. If you've either been in a similar situation or just trying to understand what their process is. Sometimes just having people walk through the estimate out loud can sometimes come up with realizations of, we can save more time or could improve this just by talking it out. I've been a Project Manager for machines that make labels to locomotive engines to how you make plywood. Project management skills don't necessarily need to be all about the field that you're in. It's really more about the method and the process and how you structure a team and get people to work together.