
We saw that consumers know a lot of their online activity is tracked, but they don't always feel comfortable with their browser behavior data being shared and used for advertising. Some consumers will take action as a result of that. As a marketing analyst, it's good to know how consumers can take control of their own data and content as it helps you understand the limits of the data you will get to work with. Let's explore it in this video. First, we'll look at tools that help consumers remain anonymous online. Next, we'll look at device settings that consumers can use to increase their personal data privacy. Finally, we'll walk through some platform specific privacy settings a user can manage. There are a number of tools a consumer can use to limit the information they share about themselves online, or how that information can be used. Three of the most common and most readily available are ad blockers, cookie blockers and VPNs. Ad blockers do what the name implies, they block ads. Ad blockers are a piece of software designed to prevent advertisements from appearing on a webpage. Most often these tools are plugins that you can install in your web browser. They will then block ads from appearing on the sites a consumer is visiting. For example, two popular ad blockers are Adblock Plus and uBlock Origin. These are both plugins that can be added to the most commonly used web browsers. Consumers appreciate the ad-free browsing experience. But as we covered in the previous video, a huge percentage of site's content publishers and creators rely on ads to fund the work that they do. Both of these tools allow the consumer to whitelist particular sites. Whitelisting allows ads to show on certain sites while still blocking ads on other sites. Some publishers and websites are very transparent about this process and they'll directly ask the user to turn off the ad blocker or whitelist their site so that they can earn ad revenue. Another tool consumers can use to limit how much information they share, are cookie blockers. Generally, cookie blockers operated similar way to ad blockers. They can be added as a plugin on a browser. However, what they do is somewhat different, rather than blocking ads entirely, these tools will prevent storing data through cookies in your browser. Without that data, it's hard for publishers and advertisers to track your browsing behavior. You may still see an ad for a new cat food, but a cookie blockers will limit or remove entirely the information that an advertiser receives back about you and your browsing habits. Two of the most popular cookie blockers are Privacy Badger, and Ghostery. Like the ad blockers, these are plugins that can be added to a browser. As we saw earlier, the use and usefulness of cookies is changing as browsers and devices are changing settings and acceptance of cookies. As a result, they're valued advertisers is changing and over time, consumers may feel less of a need to block them. Finally, a different type of privacy tool you can use is a VPN. A VPN or virtual private network, anonymizes all traffic, leaving a consumer's device by sending all traffic through an intermediary server. This hides a consumer's IP address, location and personal information. But they still leave room for tracking based on browsing habits and patterns. There are many VPN options available. Some are free and some paid, some are even built into devices and browsers. Regardless, the basic functionality of all VPNs is the same. Next, let's look at an overview of some of the settings consumers can change on their devices to improve their privacy. If you've ever looked at the settings on your phone, you know that there are many specific settings and privacy preferences available on all major devices. For our purposes, we're going to discuss three overarching concepts, location, tracking and permissions. Think of all the modern day devices that can track a consumer's location, cell phones, tablets, laptops, smartwatches, the list goes on. On each of these devices, you can choose how, when and to whom this location data is accessible. Most often these settings can be found on the location services. The next setting a consumer has some control over is how and by whom they're tracked online. These settings are less universal, but in Apple's iOS, for instance, you can find a tracking menu under the Privacy settings, which allows you to specify which apps can track you. Finally, on most devices, permissions is an umbrella term that allows a user to find tune what information or which functions apps and websites can access. For instance, you might want your favorite photo-sharing app to have access to your camera, but you might not need to give that same permission to a grocery shopping app. As with device settings, there are lots of different privacy controls that different platforms online provide. We can't cover them all, but let's take a look at some examples for social media platforms. On social media, users have some control over their content, communication and interactions. You can usually delete a post, turn off incoming messages, and customized what personal information is readily available to the public. These specific controls work in tandem privacy policy. Sites and apps that have access to data about you are required to have a privacy policy and you can usually find it with the terms of service for a website, app or service. Social media platforms recognize that it's important for consumers to have control over their privacy. Facebook, for instance, tries to make it easy for its users to control their settings through the privacy checkup tool in their app. Of course, advertising is a big component of social media platforms and the data you share on these platforms will often determine the types of ads you see. Aside from controlling who can see what you post and who can interact with you, most social media platforms also let you determine the extent to which your data is used for advertising purposes. On Facebook, you can find these controls in your personal settings. As a consumer online, you have a lot of control when it comes to who and what information you share. Now, you may wonder why I would walk you through all the ways you can block or control the data you share in a course on marketing analytics. After all, don't we marketers want to prevent people from limiting the data they share? Yes, you're right. Marketers usually like to have access to more rather than less data. However, they also understand that it's important to keep the trust of the user. and I believe that for a marketing analyst, it's really important to know that there are some limits and gaps in the data you'll get to work with and why those limits exist. Now you have a better sense of some of the data limitations resulting from consumer controls.