
Marketers use different channels to achieve their marketing goals. For instance, they may advertise on Facebook, YouTube, LinkedIn, and add Google Search Ads. While they want an overview of how all these channels perform and contribute to overall success, they will also want to understand how each specific campaign performed. For that, they'll usually turn to the reporting tools that are embedded in most large advertising platforms. Let's look at data you can get about advertising campaigns on the Facebook platform in this video. If you're running Facebook Ads, Facebook Ads Manager provides all the data you need in order to analyze your campaigns, determine what's working and what needs changing. When evaluating your campaign results, you're seeking to answer one major question, is my campaign worth the money I'm spending on it? The only way to ensure that you're not spending too much on leads, sticking to your campaign budget, and not wasting money on ads that aren't working is by looking at your campaign results. You'll hear this referred to as ROAS or return on ads spend. Later in this program, we'll look into reporting on Facebook in a lot more detail. But let's head over to Facebook Ads Manager to get an initial overview here so you get a sense of the data that's available and how marketers can make use of it. When you're running campaigns on Facebook using Ads Manager, you'll find the results for your campaigns right when you access your account. Facebook will show you the results for each one of your campaigns and also show you totals from all your campaigns at the bottom. Facebook will default to showing you a certain set of metrics under the performance grouping. But they have a number of other metrics available for you to see. If you go to Columns, you can change the type of metrics shown to you. For example, you may just want to focus on engagement, so you would change the metrics to engagement. We'll be going over metrics under the performance and clicks grouping. You can also further segment your data by time, delivery, or action. Facebook Ads Manager tracks all the data you'll need for each campaign and offers different metrics to help you determine your campaign success. With all of these options, it can be hard to decide what metrics matter most. Let's go over a few key metrics you'll want to look when evaluating the results of a campaign. Start with impressions. This is how many times your ad is getting in front of eyes on Facebook. CPM or cost per mil or 1,000 impressions, will show you how much Facebook charges you for those impressions. This number will vary depending on many factors like industry, target audience, location and so on. But tracking this can tell you whether you're spending too much on impressions or whether you're happy with the budget. Next, take a look at your CTR, which stands for click-through rate, or how many times someone who sees your ad is clicking on the link to go to a landing page. Next, you can look at your results to see how many people are taking the action you want people to take. If you have a conversion campaign, it could be signing up for a newsletter, creating an account, or making a purchase, which will be tracked as a direct result of that specific ad. If you're seeing a high number of people getting to your site but not taking any action, that's a sign to check your web copy or call to action on your site. Something's preventing them from taking the final step to sign up or purchase. You'll also be able to learn the cost per result, which is how much you're spending for each conversion or action. This will also give you a sense of how cost effective your campaign is. For example, if you find that your cost per result is 80 cents and a typical customer purchase is five dollars, then that's worthwhile for you. But if you find that you're paying four dollars per conversion and the average purchase is five dollars, you're likely spending too much. Facebook has a number of other metrics you can look at to help evaluate your campaigns, like metrics related to your bid strategy, app installs, video engagement and more. As you use the tool, you'll find which metrics are going to be the most helpful to you in order to evaluate your ROAS. Evaluating the data in Ads Manager will help you identify what might not be working, whether it be the ad creative, the web copy, or the call to action. Marketers can use this information to make adjustments and then we evaluate a campaign in a few weeks to see if the numbers have changed.