
Let's look at how a business can use Google Analytics to help tell the story of their current marketing efforts and help inform their future strategy. Lola recently launched her freelance accounting and tax preparation business. She built a website containing a list of her services, a way to contact her, and some resources and blog posts. Her goal is to reach out to Gen Z and young millennials to teach them about budgeting and finance. So she's also creating content on social media, as well as sharing about her services on LinkedIn. It's been a month, and Lola wants to see how her website is doing. She's interested in understanding the lifecycle of her users, so she starts by taking a look at acquisition because she wants to see if anyone is even visiting the site since she launched it. She sees that there are users who've been visiting the site, and their numbers have slowly increased. She also sees that there's a bump in new users on a specific day. She remembers that was the day a post she shared to Twitter, received quite a few retweets. That means that her efforts in creating organic content on Twitter drove new users to the site. Lola is glad to see this much traffic. Now, she would like to understand who is visiting her site. She looks into the user reports. Lola checks the age of her users, being that she has a target audience of Gen Z, and millennials. She wants to see the age demographic fall in that range. But the age of her visitors is a bit older. She makes a plan to focus on getting younger users to the site, maybe by opening a Tik Tok account. Lola would like to explore a little more how she's acquiring the visitors to her site, and so she goes back to the acquisition section to see. She finds that while she has some organic search, it's not much, which makes sense considering her website is new, and may not rank very high yet. She makes a note to research how to incorporate more SEO or Search Engine Optimization in her website copy so that you rank higher in search. Otherwise, she finds that traffic is coming from direct, which you can see here on the none, which means that there was no other referring site. This could simply be her family, and friends typing her new website URL into their browser. She also got some traffic from referrals, and finds that she's getting visitors from a website she wrote a guest blog post for. Readers must have clicked on the link she put in her bio. Lola makes a note that guest posts can generate traffic from websites with already-established audiences. She's also getting social media traffic from the work she's done to post organic content on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and LinkedIn. She had thought that her highest social media source would be Twitter, but her highest source of traffic is actually Instagram, where she's been posting videos, giving advice on easy ways to do your taxes. Another note for the future, video content on Instagram is generating traffic. Next, Lola goes to the behavior section, because she wants to see what site content is the most viewed. She doesn't have a big site, and assumes that her services page is getting the most traffic, after all, that's her business. But her resources page is the most popular, followed by her blog. This means that sharing resources, and posts about managing finances is resonating with her audience, and is attracting them to her site. That's wonderful. She wants to help people, but she needs to somehow turn those interested in reading her articles into customers. She decides to explore, and do an analysis, more specifically, a path analysis. She sees that very few people are going from her blog posts to her services page. But that might be as easy to fix as adding a call to action at the end of each blog post. She'll try that, and check back to see if this works. Now that Lola has taken a look at the metrics for her first month of her website. She has much greater insight into who are audiences, how they're finding her site, what they like to read on her site, and if her site is converting visitors into new customers. She now has a list of new approaches to try, and old approaches to tweak in her marketing efforts.

As you can see from this example, Google Analytics can help a marketing analyst answer many important questions related to online behavior. The tool can do a lot more than what we covered in this video. The best way to learn is to start exploring it for yourself. Open your account, browse the different reports, and play around with the different analysis templates. The more you use the tool, the more you'll see what it can do for you.