
So far, we've learned about tools that can help you evaluate what's happening on your website or your app. We looked at Google Analytics for instance, which can tell you a lot about how many people visit your website, who they are, where they come from, and so on. As I'm sure you've seen there's a lot of data that comes with having an online presence and a tool like Google Analytics helps you monitor and evaluate that data and generate insights on the basis of it. But there's one more important set of tools that marketing analysts will use to evaluate performance. More specifically, they'll use tools that help to understand whether their advertising efforts worked or whether they can optimize campaigns to achieve better results for the money that's spent on advertising. For that, analysts turn to the data and reports that are provided inside the main advertising platforms. When you advertise on Facebook, Google, LinkedIn, and so on, you can track and evaluate the success of your ads and improve them all inside the tools that these platforms provide. Marketing analysts make extensive use of these tools, so they can help improve the marketing efforts of their company. In this lesson, we will take a look at reports you find in Facebook Ads Manager and in Google Ads. I selected these two platforms because they are the biggest advertising platforms out there. And as you'll see when we go through these tools, the metrics you'll find in them are very similar. If you explore other tools like Twitter or LinkedIn, you'll find that their dashboards are quite similar to the ones we will be discussing in this lesson. Before we get started, I want you to know that what we will cover in the next two videos is really just the tip of the iceberg in terms of the data and metrics that are available in these tools. Later in this program will cover some of this in more detail. But for now, I think it's important that you get a glimpse of the rich data marketing analysts have at their disposal when they start evaluating marketing success. Let's take a look.