
In our modern world, we're generating more and more data every day from our social media posts to financial transactions we make or any other interaction we have with technology, we're leaving a long data trail behind. This data is reflection of our behavior, habits and preferences and it provides valuable insights into our world. The amount of data generated by individuals and organizations is growing at an exponential rate. Thanks to advancements in technology and the proliferation of connected devices like phones, smartwatches, car computers, smart home setups like connected alarm systems, cameras, and thermostats. All this data provides us with a wealth of information and if used correctly, it can help us make better decisions. But to do that, we need people who can help make sense of all the data and derive the insights from it that can really help us progress. These people are data analysts. Did I already mentioned they are in high demand? Whether you're a business owner, a marketer, or just someone who wants to understand the world around you, data analytics is an essential skill to have. Although it's true that when we talk about data today, we immediately think of terabytes of data collected every second through the Internet and complex machines and procedures, data could also be the handwritten records you keep about purchases at your bake sale or a daily log you keep up your blood pressure. It doesn't need to be complicated. When you structure and analyze your data in the right way even simple data can become meaningful and help you to gain insights and make better decisions in the future. To really capitalize on the power of data, we need people that can help collect the relevant data, clean and organize that data and analyze and visualize that data to uncover insights and help us make informed decisions. That's exactly what data analysts do. Even if you don't plan on becoming a data analyst, having a basic understanding of data analytics will be beneficial to you in many ways. It will give you the ability to make informed decisions, to identify patterns and trends, and to communicate data in a clear and concise manner. Before we delve into all the aspects of data analytics, let's first define what data analytics really is. That's what's coming up next.