
Before starting an analytics project, it's essential that you understand the business goal related to your analytics task. Without knowing exactly what the business wants to achieve, it's difficult to create a plan for action and measure progress towards the objectives. To make sure the goal is clear, it's important to write it down before you embark on any data collection. As you evaluate business goals, it helps to make them specific, measurable, achievable, relevant and time-bound. In other words, SMART. Let's take a closer look at each element of the SMART acronym and what it really means to formulate a SMART goal. A goal should be specific, and you should be able to write or say it in a way that anyone could understand. There shouldn't be any confusion about what the business is trying to achieve. You could say for example: sell 100 products, get 200 new subscribers, or generate 20 qualified leads. A goal should also be measurable. You should be able to evaluate whether the goal was achieved in a quantifiable way. For instance, you can measure your goal by the number of sales, the amount of revenue, or the number of visitors to a website. The goal should be something you can achieve. It has to be realistic. If the business has a very lofty goal that might not be immediately achievable, break up the goal in a few SMART sub-goals or milestones that can be reached. When people set marketing or business goals, they also want to think about their relevance. Will they help achieve the bigger business objectives? Do they matter? It's important to make sure the goals align with the greater business strategy. The goals should have a start and an end date. That way you can track against a milestone and know when it's time to measure the outcome and evaluate whether the goal was achieved. Let's look at an example of a SMART goal. Imagine a business is creating and launching its website, so they can continue their success from their physical store into online sales. Their goal could be: Get 10,000 website visits during the month of May. This goal is SMART. It is specific and clearly states what they want to achieve. It is measurable - they can track the number of visits to the website with the software they used to create the website. Given the success of the physical store, the business determines that this goal is challenging, but achievable. The goal is also relevant. After all, it is the intention to sell products online, so getting more visitors will ultimately help. Lastly, it's time-bound; They have set a deadline for the end of May.

Once you have a SMART goal, it will be a lot easier to formulate the objective for your analysis. After all, it will be much clearer to you what you are contributing to. Once a goal is set, you will determine which questions to answer to help you achieve the goal. Answering those questions becomes the objective of your analysis. You will find that often, your analysis will center around evaluating whether a goal was achieved. And, in order to do that, you'll isolate the metrics that best indicate to you whether a goal was indeed reached. These indicators are referred to as KPIs, and later in this course, I will explain in a bit more detail what they are. See you in the next video!
​