
Previously, we explained how reflecting on your objective and articulating a SMART goal before starting any data analysis is really helpful. In this video, I want to explain one more concept before delving deeper into using the OSEMN framework. That is Key Performance Indicators or KPIs. Say it is your New Year's resolution to focus on your overall fitness, and you set yourself the following goal: "By the end of this year, I want to run the Honolulu Marathon in under four hours." That's a SMART goal! In other words, it is specific because you know which marathon. It is measurable because a marathon is 26.2 miles, and you want to do it in under four hours. It's achievable, if you train of course. And, it's relevant because it's a goal that relates to your plan to focus on your overall fitness. It's time-bound: you have until December to get ready, because that is when the Honolulu Marathon is scheduled. You decide to train for the marathon using Strava, an app that helps runners track their running progress. You have a plan, and you gradually increase your mileage towards your goal. Here's report you get for one of your practice runs on Strava. It gives you: The distance you ran, the time it took you, your pace, some data on elevation gain and calories burned. All of this information is interesting, but the most important information here is pace. You see that you're running at a pace of 11 minutes and 49 seconds per mile. If you want to complete the marathon in under four hours, you'll need to run at approximately nine minutes per mile. So, you have a bit of training to do. Pace is a key metric for you to track, to assess whether you are making progress towards your goal. All the other data available is interesting and related to your goal, but they're not as crucial as pace when it comes to achieving your goal. In this case, we can call pace a Key Performance Indicator, or KPI. KPIs are measurable values that can help you track your progress towards a goal. In order to be helpful, KPIs are usually quantitative, meaning that they can be measured. They are also directional; in other words, they go up or down. They should also have a direct relationship to your goal. For analysts, KPIs are an important tool to help identify the metrics that really matter and distinguish them from the data that are interesting, but that don't necessarily tell you whether or not you are achieving your goal. Now, let's look at how you can determine your KPIs. Calla & Ivy is a flower business in Amsterdam. Imra is the owner. The business started with a physical location, a flower boutique in Amsterdam, and now, Imra has created a website, and is planning on selling her famed bouquets online as well. Imra established this SMART goal to help her kickstart that initiative: "Get 10,000 website visits during the month of May." A key performance indicator for Imra will be the number of monthly website visitors. It's measurable because you can quantify the number of website visitors. It's directional, because visitors to the site can increase or decrease over a period of time, and it is directly related to her goal of increasing traffic to her new site. The software Imra uses to manage her website also provides her with a dashboard that includes metrics like number of pages viewed, average time spent per visit, and number of transactions. All of these are interesting metrics, and they relate to the website and Imra's marketing activity, but they're not key to evaluating success for Imra's specific goal. The key performance indicator or KPI for her to track is the number of monthly website visits. Another way to look at the metrics Imra has is that some are primary KPIs and some are secondary KPIs. A primary KPI directly measures whether you are on track to reach your goal, and a secondary KPI is a metric that directly correlates to your primary KPI, but does not fully allow you to confirm that you reached your goal. For Imra's goal, primary KPI is the number of monthly website visits, and a secondary KPI could be the brand awareness for Calla & Ivy. The higher the awareness of the brand, the higher the chances that people will visit her website, but awareness alone won't make her achieve her goal of actually attracting website visits. Awareness is correlated to the number of visits, but it doesn't allow us to conclude the goal is reached. It is a secondary KPI. Throughout this course, it will become clear that a lot of data is available for most data analytics tasks, and the amount of data can quickly become overwhelming. KPIs are helpful to prevent that, and if you set your KPIs related to your goal ahead of time, you will protect yourself from getting lost in the data. With your goals and KPIs set, you are ready to start your analysis. Later, I'll walk you through an example of what this could look like if you use the OSEMN framework.