
In the previous videos, we covered the definition of data analytics and its components. In this video, we'll explore the role of a data analyst and the typical tasks they perform. A data analyst is a professional who uses data analytics to uncover insights and make informed decisions. They are responsible for collecting, cleaning, organizing, analyzing, and visualizing data to provide valuable insights for their organizations. The role of a data analyst is critical for organizations because they help make data-driven decisions that can impact the bottom line. Earlier, we talked about how there is more and more data available, and when used and analyzed well, this data is incredibly valuable to organizations. As a result, the role of data analysts is becoming increasingly important. Organizations realize how data analytics can improve their decision making and make them more competitive, so they're eager to hire people who can help them in this process. So what exactly does a data analyst do? I know you can already answer that question based on what you learned when studying the definition of data analytics.

There are some common tasks that all data analysts do, such as collecting data from various sources, such as databases, spreadsheets, and online platforms. Cleaning data to remove duplicates, inconsistencies, and errors. We sometimes refer to this task as data scrubbing. Organizing data into meaningful groups. Analyzing data using statistical and mathematical methods to uncover insights and relationships within the data. And, interpreting data, including visualizing data in a way that's easy to understand and telling a story based on the analysis. Data analysts will often create presentations that communicate insights and findings to other people in the organization so they can use the analysis to make decisions. Data analysts can work in a variety of fields, including marketing, finance, healthcare, and many others. They use data analytics to solve real-world problems and make data-driven decisions. For example, a data analyst working in the healthcare industry might use data analytics to identify trends in patient health data and make recommendations for improving patient outcomes. Health insurance companies often employ data analysts, for instance. They can help to identify patients who have certain risk factors - say patients with asthma - and perform analysis to help them understand which strategies might help to lower the risk of future problems for asthma patients. Their research can identify regular cardio exercise as a helpful way to improve asthma patients' health, and the insurance company might decide to provide extra benefits to asthma patients, such as reducing the cost of a gym membership. Based on the work of the data analyst in this example, the health insurance company learned that the cost of providing gym memberships is well worth the benefits of less insurance payouts later on, because patients are healthier. In the finance industry, data analysts use data analytics to understand market trends and make informed investment decisions. They might collect and analyze data on stock prices, economic indicators, and other financial data to help investors make informed decisions. They help put reports together on performance of certain stocks and funds, help create products to support people's financial decisions, and so forth. As I'm sure you can imagine, their role is very important in this industry. And, as with so many industries, there is an abundance of data that can be used to perform these analyses. In marketing, data analysts use data analytics to understand consumer behavior and preferences. They might collect and analyze data on consumer buying patterns, website traffic, and social media activity to develop targeted marketing campaigns. Then, they evaluate the effectiveness of the campaigns and they help steer decisions on where to spend a company's advertising dollars. For instance, they might use information from past campaigns and based on their analysis, suggest that a brand stops advertising on Twitter and moves the campaign budget to Instagram and YouTube instead, because their data predicts that these marketing channels will generate more sales for the same dollar amount spent. These are just a few examples of the many industries where data analytics plays a critical role. The demand for data analysts is growing, and the opportunities for career growth and advancement are numerous. Whether you're just starting out in your career or you're looking to make a change, a career in data analytics is a great choice! Later in this course, you will hear from a few people who have made that choice and see what their day to day job looks like.