# Installing, Updating, and Removing Software on Windows

Get ready because in this video we're going to install a program called Git. Git is a version control system that helps keep track of changes made to files and directories like how some word processors today have a revision history feature. If you didn't like something you wrote you can just go back to a previous version. We're going to be using Git in later courses but for now we're just going to go ahead and install it. First, we're going to grab the install program from Git's website. We're going to download the 64-bit executable. Remember from an earlier lesson that we're using a 64-bit CPU architecture so we should install 64-bit applications for better compatibility. Next up you'll see the fileextension.exe. This is a little different than the texture image file extensions we've seen up until now. Exe is a file extension found in Windows for an executable file. We'll learn more about this in a later Lesson 2. For now, just double-click on this and it'll ask us if we want to install the file.

That's it. Now you can start using it. Some program installations might ask you to reboot. Make sure to do that since there might be some system files or processes that also need to restart for your new software to work correctly. To verify that you now have Git installed you can navigate to add or remove programs. From here you can see what applications are installed on the machine and there it is, Git Version 2.14.1. Let's say you had an older version of Git installed and you wanted to update it to the new version. Luckily, Windows makes it easy for us to do just that. We can install it just like we did and it'll ask if you want to upgrade to the newest version. To remove software from Windows you can just search for the Add or Remove Programs setting. From there select the application you want to remove and you'll see a button to uninstall. Let's go ahead and click this, and run through an uninstall of the software. It asks us for an administrator password. We have safety guards in place to prevent unauthorized users from installing or uninstalling software. We'll learn more about this later but for now, since I'm an administrator, I'm just going to enter my password and uninstall the software. Once you uninstall the software, restart your computer so we can do the necessary cleanup to completely get rid of it.
