# Sergio: My career path

My name is Sergey Letter and I'm a network engineer at google, when I was just a young kid. I liked analog tools like screwdrivers and drills and then I like taking things apart, and then as I got older in my teenage years. I realized I could take apart computers and then that really interested me because when you opened it up it was fans, lights, the circuitry. And I just didn't understand it didn't make sense to me but if I knew if I put it together the right way. I could actually interact with it and have fun and play my video games off of it and that's kind of how it really started. And by the time when I got a little older outside of high school, I realized I could make this a passionate and actually really learn how this technology works. I think the favorite part is solving the problems, I really enjoy when we get to see data go from one device to another. And how things communicate and how the customers get to enjoy it, I've gained so many different tools and skills. And now I feel like a swiss army knife when I'm working and there's so many different experiences I can bring back to solve problems I face today. Early starting off as an entry level network technician, I had a project to upgrade a firewall for a police department. And the firewall basically is the security appliance and the entry point to the network. We thought it worked it went through successfully until I got a phone call very late at night that things were broken. And when we realized that emails and police calls, we're not going through and that the upgrade failed. And at that point, I realized the magnitude of the things that I am working on can affect people's lives and it can cause harm and it can cause good. So it was really a good humbling experience for me when I was working on that project.
