# Sergio: A journey to the IT field

When you're working in IT, you work with a bunch of different systems. It could be servers, databases, a bunch of flavor of operating systems. Then as a network engineer, you have to know how all those things work together. I think personally for me growing up, I had a learning disorder, so I never felt academics was a strong suit for me. I felt if I ever wanted to do computers or programming or networking, I had to be a genius, I had to be good at math and science, had to get straight A's. But for me, I realized that this wasn't about level of intelligence. It's more about your passion and how driven you were to learn. You don't have to be a genius. You just have to be driven and be able to teach yourself things and advance yourself. The best advice I got from a mentor was, "Maximize your potential." I think that can be applied in all areas of life, but especially in IT and any career in technology, because you never probably going to be the smartest person in the room. It's going to be about your path and your career and just worry about those at that part of it. I don't think formal education is necessary for a role in IT. There's many paths to get there and many different people take different paths. If someone is nervous that they don't have a four-year degree or certain credentials, it's okay. IT is a place where if you know the information and if you know your foundations, you're going to be able to achieve the career success you want. I just think when you look at the role that technology is playing in our daily lives, it just makes sense. Personally for me, I love solving problems, I like being challenged and technology, it gives you all those challenges and those puzzles to solve. I always tell people that doing IT is your starting ground, it's the foundation to whatever you want to start the next. It's an umbrella of technologies and you can try a bunch of different things and then slowly start to move into more of a specialization if you'd like to.
