# Answer Your Business Question with Your Data

The interprets stage of the OSEMN process is where everything comes together. So far, you've seen the first four stages of the OSEMN framework, obtain, scrub, explore and model. Each stage gives you a better understanding of the business problem you're trying to solve. For example, you could be predicting the number of responses for an email campaign or you could be trying to find new potential customers to grow the business. In either case, you start with the obtain stage where you collect the data to answer the question. Then you move on to the scrubs stage where you clean the data. Remember cleaning data includes removing duplicates, handling missing values, and ensuring the data has a consistent format. After scrubbing, you then explore the data. When exploring, you'll apply statistics to find interesting patterns and trends. For example, you might notice that some email campaigns have higher response rates than others, and after exploring, you'll apply models to the data. These models will allow you to generate predictions. For example, based on past email campaigns, how many responses can be we expect for this campaign? Models also give you more insights. A model that predicts email response rates will also tell you what makes it more likely for people to respond to emails. Knowing what influences people to respond can help improve marketing campaigns. The last stage of the OSEMN process is interpret. The interpret stage is where you interpret your analysis. It's arguably the most important. Without it, all we would have is data and statistics. The interprets stage translates your analytical findings back to a business context. After successful modeling stage, you'll have a new tool like a regression model that can be used to generate predictions. The answers generated from these sorts of models are very specific and usually aren't immediately interpretable or understandable by non-technical team members. During the interprets stage, our goal is to close the loop of the OSEMN cycle by using the models and insights we generated during the exploration and modeling phases to try and answer the business question driving the entire project. In other words here you look back at your objective for your analysis. Your goal here is twofold. First and foremost you need to understand the results of your model and all the insights it can provide. These might be the actual predictions the model makes, like forecasting the results of sales from a campaign or they might be information contained within your model like an insight that shows that mailing lists sign-ups are strong predictors of people spending more money with your company. Second, you need to be able to explain your findings to a non-technical audience in a clear concise way. Simply understanding the implications of your model isn't enough. You need to be able to make others understand it and trust your results. Remember, analytics projects are about generating actionable insights or information that can be used to make better decisions that help the company.
​
