Case Study - Exploring Data

Kira now has a clean set of data that she considers relevant for the question she got from Carlos at Inu+Neko: Which products should he include in the new dog and cat food subscription product to help him reach 500 subscribers by the end of the year? Kira gets started with Step 3 of the OSEMN cycle, she starts to explore the data. She thinks that a good place to start is to see what types of data are in each column. She sees that she has both categorical and numerical data. There's a date column and text columns like order numbers and customer IDs. She notices that the order number and customer ID columns are very long and take up a lot of screen space and are hard to type. So, she decides to map each unique value to a number in a process called encoding. Encoding is the process of turning a string of data into numerical data by mapping each unique string to a unique number. Encoding can be used to reduce the amount of memory needed to work with data, or to make large, complex strings easier to work with. Can also be used to turn text data into numbers when a model needs numerical inputs instead of text inputs. In this example, Kira's using encoding to make the data easier to view and understand. She also notices that there are quite a few columns that contain redundant information. A column is redundant if you could look at one column and always guess what's in the other column. In this case, the customer ID and name are redundant. They might not always be, but for this product she knows it's safe to assume, so she hides customer name. She also notices that SKU and product name are redundant as well, so she hides the SKU. She also decides that it is unlikely that this project will look at data at the street address level, so she only keeps the state and zip code. Great, now she can see all of the useful columns at a glance. And not having a large text columns even helps her computer run more smoothly. Next, she decided to run some summary statistics for the remaining columns. She looks at things like the most common value, how many times it appears, and what percentage of the rows it shows up in. She also looks at the minimum, maximum, range, and mean of the numerical values. From this, she sees that the data spans 899 days from the spring of 2019 through the summer of 2021. She sees that Texas is the most popular state, which makes sense because it is quite populous. There are also some numerical columns that she thinks could come in handy, like price and quantity. Kira decides to add up the total sales for each product and use a bar chart to look at the distribution of these total sales. This gives her exactly what she was looking for, the top selling products. She can also see from this chart that cat products tend to sell more than dog products. She realizes that it's great to know what top selling products are, but it might also be important to know what causes those products to sell more. To answer that question, she creates a few scatter plots to observe the relationships between the quantities sold and different variables. One relationship that stands out to her is quantity sold and price. She notices that if she looks at just cat or dog products in isolation, the quantity sold is low for low and high-priced items, but high for items in the middle. This means that the two variables have a positive correlation for low prices, and a negative correlation for high values. This is great information to pass on to Carlos. Maybe adding more medium-priced items will help him find additional products for his subscription service. Kira now knows the top selling products and a possible reason for why those products are the top sellers. Kira's ready to move on to the next stage in her analysis, the model stage.