Case Study - Modeling Data

Kira is making her way through the OSEMN cycle. She has obtained the right data, scrubbed the data, and she learned quite a bit in the exploration stage to help Carlos at Inu+Neko decide on the product mix for the new subscription service. Now, it's time to create a model. Kira wants to create a model so she can use the data from historical purchases to predict the future. Of course, there are a few complexities here. The historical data doesn't show any information on subscriptions, because the subscription model doesn't exist yet. But Kira believes that it is fair to assume that if a subscription model exists, the people who buy almost every month are likely to subscribe. She doesn't know exactly how likely though, so she decides to play it safe and assume that 50% of the people who buy eight or more times a year will subscribe. Kira talks to her friend who is a data scientist. She tells him that, from her exploration of the data, she learned that this is the ranking of the products among repeat buyers. She thinks that the top five cat and dog products in this list should be the ten items included in the package. She refers to this package as "Package A". She also tells him that she thinks there's a 50% chance that a repeat buyer would become a subscriber. Her friend says that using this information he can create a custom algorithm to train a regression model that will predict the number of subscriptions Kira can expect in a year. At this point, she doesn't have to understand the details of the model, but it basically finds every repeat buyer in the database that bought one of the ten products in the proposed package. And then assumes that 50% of them will become subscribers. The model shows that if we use the 10- product mix Kira suggested in Package A, we can expect 475 subscriptions. Kira knows that isn't quite enough to reach Carlos's goal of 500 subscribers. She knows that Carlos told her that he wants to keep the products offered in the subscription limited to 10 products, but she's curious to see what would happen if she put 12 products in the package instead. So she asks her friend to run the model again, but now with package B, which includes the top six dog and cat items purchased by repeat buyers. After they run the model, they find that the estimated number of subscribers for the year with package B is 517. That helps to reach Carlos's goal! Kira is happy with the predictions she has from the model based on the different packages. She isn't sure whether Carlos will be interested in adding two more products to the package, but at least she can now provide him with a convincing argument for why he might want to consider it.