
Welcome to the intro to data analytics course. I'm really glad you're here, and I'm excited to give you an overview of the many things you can accomplish analyzing data. At the end of this course, you'll have a good understanding of what data analytics is and what data analysts do. You'll also have a framework that you can use to approach data analysis projects. And you'll know how to use data to help you tell a story and convince people of your point of view using the insights you gained from the data. This course has four parts, in the first week, we will take a closer look at what data analytics is and what's involved in the role of a data analyst. We will also introduce the awesome framework, a framework that will guide you through data analytics projects and that can help you keep your efforts focused on the topics at hand, even in a world as data rich as ours. In the second week, we will focus on data sources and where you can obtain data that are reliable and that will help you with your analytics project. We'll also talk about how you can clean the data you find, or in other words, get them ready for analysis. Then in the third week, we will start to explore data, the step in which we try to uncover what the data is telling us. We will also go a step further and focus on modeling. You'll learn why and how models are used and how they can help you to use the insights we gather from the data to predict what might happen in the future. In the fourth and final week in this course, you'll learn how to interpret your findings and start to tell a story with your data data. Along the way, we will use many examples, and we'll also bring in a real world case study so you can see how data analytics works in practice. And you'll get a chance to practice too. There are activities in this course that will get you started working with data and getting a taste for what the life of a data analyst is like. I'm excited to get started. See you in the next video.