# Exploring Data

Now that I had obtained the data and scrubbed it, it was time to explore the data. This is the phase where I just try to get a sense of what the data was telling me and what trends I could observe. Remember that I was studying the relationship between access to affordable childcare and women's labor force participation, as well as a gender pay gap. So I had a few variables that were important for me to understand. Exploring the data thread in these variables would be a good start. I focused on four variables and they were women's labor force participation, the gender pay gap, the cost of childcare, and the time children spent in formal childcare. I thought that these last two variables combined cost of care and time spent, would be a good indicator for the accessibility of childcare. For each of these variables, I explored the data trend, or in other words, I looked at how the data changed over time. This chart shows the trend in women's labor force participation. I used Google Sheets to create this chart. Later you'll learn more about how to create charts from your data. Exploring my data told me that 67.7% of women in Europe were employed in 2021, and this percentage increased slowly over the past years from 60.7% in 2010. However, women's participation in the labor force is still considerably lower than that of men, 78.5% of men were employed in 2021. The data you see in this chart is an aggregate for Europe, but it was clear from my data that the percentage of women in paid jobs differs between European countries. So I decided to create a chart for that as well. You can see that chart here. Greece and Italy have the lowest percentage of women in the labor force, but in Sweden, 78% of women were employed in 2021, which is quite a bit higher than the European average and is the red bar you are seeing in this chart. I also took a look at the difference between the percentage of men and the percentage of women employed in different countries, which is what the green line in this chart shows. Romania has the largest discrepancy between men and women in the labor force, followed closely by Greece and Italy. In Finland and Lithuania, there is a much more balance between the number of men and women who are employed. I had read another research that one of the main drivers of gender inequalities in the labor market is the difference in time spent on unpaid activities between men and women. Women spend much more time on unpaid activities like household work and childcare, which leaves them less time for them to do paid work. So I was interested in exploring further whether the countries that have big differences in percentage of women versus men working outside the house maybe had less accessible childcare. I'll come back to that later. Next, I looked at the trend in the gender pay gap or the differences in average wages between men and women. In Europe, the average gender pay gap was 13% in 2019. In other words, women were on average making 13% less than men. The gap has decreased a little bit compared to 2010, when it was 15.8%, as shown in this trend chart. The pay gap varies across European countries, with countries like Luxembourg, Romania, Italy and Belgium having considerably lower gap between the average wages of men and women than Germany, Austria, Latvia and Estonia. Then I looked at the data related to childcare. First, I explore the cost of childcare. For this, I use my data from the OECD and I found that over the past years, the average net childcare cost as a percent of household income decreased, In Europe. In 2004, people were paying on average 10.33% of their income for childcare, and that decreased to 8.19% in 2021. As with other variables, the cost of childcare is different between European countries. Malta and Italy provide free childcare, but the cost is as high as 20% or more of the household income in Czechia, Cyprus and Ireland, with the cost of childcare decreasing, we are also seeing an increase in the time preschool age children spend in childcare. In 2019, children under the age of 3 spent, on average 10.8 hours per week in formal childcare, a 22.7% increase compared to an average of 8.8 hours in 2010. Again, we see large differences in different European countries, with children under the age of three in Norway spending 23.3 hours on average per week in childcare. And children under three in Switzerland, Bulgaria and Italy spending less than half that time in childcare.

There was one last thing I wanted to explore in my data. The European Union has invested a lot in decreasing the cost of childcare, but I wanted to check whether lower cost actually means that people will use childcare more. People might have other reasons to opt out of childcare, and maybe lowering the cost doesn't change that. So I checked out the relationship between the cost of childcare and time spent in childcare. Here's what I found, the cost of childcare accounts for 84% of the variation in the time children under 3 spend in childcare. In other words, it looks like cost is a big factor influencing the time children have been spending in childcare. As this graph shows, when the cost of childcare goes down, time spent in childcare goes up. I have to add a caveat here though, given that I only had data from six different years to do this analysis. That is not that many data points, but I think the correlation is strong enough, which makes me feel more confident. As my statistics course taught me. This didn't quite prove that lowering the cost is the reason for increased time spent. It just shows that there is a relationship between the two. You'll learn all about this later. I felt that exploring the data confirmed many assumptions I had and I thought this was a very interesting and fun phase of the analysis. With all I had learned so far, I continued to do the modeling phase. I will tell you more about that in the next video.
​