# Interpreting Data

Now it is time to interpret the results of the analysis and draw some conclusions. I did this research for a school project, but I would like to send my findings to the European Union because I'm hoping it might inform their policymaking. To do that, it is a good idea to summarize the main results. Here's what I concluded. Women's labor force participation in European countries has increased slowly over the past decade, from 60.7% in 2010 to 67.7% in 2021, but it is still significantly lower than the participation of men, which was 78.5% in 2021. The average gender pay gap in EU countries decreased from 15.8% in 2010 to 13% in 2019, but a gap of 13% is still pretty high. Of course, it is important to note that the gap differs substantially between countries. The European Commission highlights and it studies that one reason for these differences between men and women's status in the workforce is the unequal share of paid and unpaid work between men and women. More specifically, women spend much more time than men on unpaid child care. This is why I expected the lowering the cost of childcare will make it easier for families to put their child in childcare and will allow women more time for paperwork leading to more women joining the workforce. I also expected that increased access to childcare will increase equality between men and women regarding salaries, availability of childcare might change the employer's expectations in terms of how much unpaid work women will take on compared to men and that could influence the gender pay gap. My expectations were confirmed by my analysis. The cost of childcare decrease by 2.19% points since 2004. As the cost of childcare decreases, we have seen a 22.7% increase in the number of hours children spend in formal childcare. The number of hours children under three spending formal childcare accounts for 87.2% of the variation in the amount of women's participation in the labor force. This correlation suggests that improving the accessibility and quality of former child care within a country, could incentivize more women to join the workforce. I found a similar relationship when I compare the amount of time spent in form of childcare to the average gender pay gap. I expected that as the amount of time and childcare increase, the pay gap would decrease. In my analysis confirms that in fact, time spent in childcare accounts for about 65% of the variation in the average gender pay gap. To conclude, my research suggests that access to formal childcare for children under the age of three, plays an important role in achieving gender equality in the workforce, both when it comes to increasing women's labor participation, as well as closing the gender pay gap. Given that achieving economic gender equality is crucial for economic growth in the EU, focusing on policies that improve access and affordability of childcare is important. That gives you a full overview of the research I conduct it. Of course, there are many more analyses that would have been interesting and that would give us further insight into my research questions, but that's for the future. I found that using the awesome framework to help keep me focused and guided me from data gathering to conclusion. I hope that the framework can do the same for you.