
Your website is one of the biggest assets your business will have. New customers will learn about you through your website and old customers return because they're engaged with your brand. Your marketing efforts, both organic and paid, are going to funnel to your website. Even if you have a brick and mortar store, you're probably also generating sales on your website. But many businesses today are online only and do all of their business through their website. This means that you need to thoroughly understand how users interact with your website. This allows you to optimize your site content to not only provide the best value and experience for your visitors, but to also maximize your conversions from signing up for a newsletter to a sale. With so much of your business dependent on your website, you have to know who your audience is, how they're getting to your site, what content keeps them engaged and if potential customers are visiting and staying to buy or visiting and leaving. This is why analyzing data associated with your website can help you with your marketing efforts. Marketers need to know where to find website data and analytics, how to read them, and how to glean insights from them, so they can make data-backed decisions on whether to change marketing efforts going forward, or whether what they're doing now is paying off. That's what you'll begin to learn in this lesson. First, you'll learn a bit about the different tools, both free and paid, that can provide web data reporting and analytics, so you can see the full picture of how your visitors are interacting on your site. Then we'll give you a tour of Google Analytics so you can begin to understand the extent of the tool and the data it can provide. Finally, we'll take a look at how a business owner can use Google Analytics to inform their marketing efforts and shape their next steps. Let's get started.