# Introduction - OSEMN Framework in Practice

Hi, my name is Jules Lustig. In the next few videos, I will walk you through my first data analytics project. It is a project I did for school, but I'm hoping my findings will impact how governments make decisions about funding child care. I used the awesome framework to approach my analysis and I thought it was super helpful. But, I'm getting ahead of myself here. Let me first tell you what I tried to do with my analysis. Studies around the world have shown that childcare starting at an early age benefits children's development. However, I believe that access to childcare also has a real impact on the life of moms and their ability to work outside of the house and progress in their careers. Not only that, I believe that access to affordable childcare might be the key to understanding the gender pay gap, or in other words, the difference in pay between men and women. Fixing the gender pay gap is an important topic for policymakers. But, encouraging women to participate in the workforce in the first place is maybe even more important. Given that our population is aging, the older group of the population relies more heavily on younger people for income. To support the older group, it is important that as many of the younger people as possible are employed, so having women as part of the working group is crucial. I believe that these are good reasons for governments to pay attention to childcare. If childcare costs are lower, more women will participate in the workforce. And I also believe that if employers know that women have access to childcare when they need it, the wage gap will shrink. Now, that is of course what I think, but in my study, I wanted to prove that this is actually true. So here are the hypotheses I wrote. First, the percentage of women who work outside the home will increase if childcare costs decrease. And second, with decreasing childcare costs, the gender pay gap will also decrease. In the videos that follow, I will walk you through how I use the awesome framework to evaluate these hypotheses.