
Hello, and welcome to this meta program focused on data analytics. My name is Anke Audenert and I'm one of your instructors. In today's digital age, the saying knowledge is power has evolved to data driven knowledge is power. In a world, wash with data where every click, every view, and every swipe generates information, understanding that vast ocean of data is no longer just an option. It's essential. I'm excited you are joining me on this journey into the heart of data analysis. Data analysis lies at the core of understanding and shaping our future, from online advertising and digital commerce to finance and healthcare. Imagine being able to predict market trends before they happen to understand consumer behavior at a granular level or to make medical advancements based on real world data. That's the power of data analytics. Through this program, you'll embark on a journey from the basics of data analysis to using statistics to discover patterns in data, from mastering spreadsheets and visualization tools to getting a taste of coding in Python. You'll unlock the potential to transform industries, to make informed decisions, and to innovate for the future. The courses in this program consist of video lessons with some readings along the way. They have a practical focus so that you get hands on experience and will be prepared for the day to day role of an analyst. You'll find many examples and cases throughout our videos, and there are quizzes, exercises, and projects to help you practice your skills. In my career, data analytics has helped me better understand research data, back up my arguments with data-based insights, and often convince my managers or clients to adapt their business strategies. I hope that as you go through this program, you'll discover that data analysis has the power to unlock the stories data I have to tell. I can't wait to get started.