# Modeling Data

I explored the data and found a few things to take a closer look at. Although I didn't exactly create models that can help me predict the future, I focused on further analyzing the relationship between childcare on the one hand, and women's labor force participation, as well as the gender pay gap on the other hand. Even though my models are not complex at all, I classified this step under the modeling phase. Here's what I did. I read a research paper from the OECD about unpaid care work, in which they showed that around the world, women spend 2-10 times more on unpaid care work than men. For Europe specifically, it was estimated that women spend about double the time on unpaid care work than men. Earlier, I had read and other research by Gimenez-Nadal and Molina that this discrepancy in unpaid care work is responsible for the lower participation of women in the workforce. I thought that if we reduce the care load for women, we would see an increase in women's participation in the labor force. Childcare is, of course, a big part of the unpaid care women take on. I expected that if the time children spend in daycare increases, we would also see the increase in the participation of women in the labor force. This chart shows the result of my analysis. Basically, it shows that there is a significant correlation of 87.2% between women's labor force participation and the average number of hours children under three spend in formal daycare. It shows that a one-hour increase in childcare increases women's participation by 2.46% points. Another topic I was really interested in exploring was ways to close the wage gap between men and women. I had read a study by Claudia Goldin , a Stanford professor, in which she pointed out that for the gender pay gap to close, it is important that firms don't disproportionately reward individuals who work long and specific hours. I believe that if women are spending more time on unpaid care, the people who hire them might assume that they won't be as flexible and thus they will not be spending more hours at work. That could affect how they are rewarded. I think that if childcare is more accessible, then that assumption might go away and over time, companies will expect that women and men will be equally flexible when it comes to spending an extra hour at work. With that in mind, I expect a relationship between childcare and the gender pay gap. My analysis confirms that the pay gap decreases as the average weekly time spent in formal daycare for children under the age of three increases. There is a significant correlation of 65% between the difference in pay between men and women, and the time children spend in formal childcare. We found that when the average time spent in childcare goes up by one hour, the average pay gap decreases by 0.64 percentage points. These analyses were in line with what I had expected or the hypothesis I formulated for my research. Now, I had what I needed to interpret my results and draw my conclusions. I will tell you more about that in the next video.