# Obtaining Data

I've been using the Osemn framework to guide me through my analysis, and as a first step in the framework, I needed to figure out how I'm going to obtain my data. I decided to limit my research to only Europe, I'd read a lot about the efforts of the European Union to support childcare. So I felt that I would be able to see the effect of these efforts in data for different European countries over the past decade or so. I am sure data from other countries could have been interesting as well, but I felt I had to narrow down my analysis.

For my first hypothesis, the percentage of women who work outside the home will increase if childcare costs decrease. I needed the following data, data on the percentage of women who work outside the home, and data on the cost of childcare. My second hypothesis was this, as childcare costs decrease, the gender pay gap also decreases. Now, to evaluate this, I again needed data on the cost of childcare, as well as data on the gender pay gap. I also needed data on the time children spend in childcare, because that would help me evaluate the effect of the cost on the gender pay gap. Fortunately for me, Europe keeps lots of data like demographics, income, childcare costs, etc, for its different countries. For my analysis, I decided on two different data sources. The first source I used is eurostat, the official statistical office of the European Union. It is a large database with lots of statistics, and it comes with a website where you can download and filter all the data you need, all free of charge. The data goes back many years, and it covers information around women's participation in the labor force, hours children spend in childcare, and the wage gap between men and women. So many of the data points I needed are here. I also use data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, also known as the OECD, an international organization with the goal of building better policies for better living. The OECD makes this data available to the public for free. The data covers more countries, but I only use the data related to the European countries I was studying. In particular, the OECD has data on the cost of childcare, so that gave me more of what I needed. Of course, there are other sources where you might find some of these data, but I selected these two data sets because I could be confident that they would provide me with valid and reliable data. And I know this because I use the data validity checklist.

Their source is credible, they come from reputable organizations, and the data is recent. The methodology these organizations use to collect their data is sound. They use large samples that represent the population well, and they clearly describe how the data is collected on their website. These organizations also provide objective data, they use this data for their own research and to help them in policy making. The data is also accurate, often, eurostat and OECD report on similar things, and their data align pretty well. The other thing I found encouraging is that eurostat lists a lot of research that is done using their data. And they publish the commentary of other researchers about the data, which helps to understand whether there might be inaccuracies. But in any case, I did not see any red flags for the data I used. Finally, the data in these data sets is relevant to my research questions. So, having gone through this checklist, I felt confident with the data sets I chose, and I proceeded to download the relevant data. I downloaded the data to Google Sheets because that is where I plan to do my analysis. Here is an example of a piece of a data set I downloaded from eurostat. Next, I had to focus on cleaning my data, I will explain what I did in that phase in the next video.