# Subfields of psychology
With its broad scope, psychology covers a wide range of the human experience, such as learning and memory, sensation and perception, motivation and emotion, thinking and language, personality and social behaviour, intelligence, child development, mental illness, and much more. Psychologists can investigate these topics from a variety of different perspectives. Each psychological perspective is underpinned by a shared set of assumptions about what is important to study and how to study it. Some psychologists conduct detailed biological studies of the brain using a range of contemporary tools and techniques; others explore how we process information; still others look at human behaviour from the perspective of evolution, while others study the influence of culture and society on how we behave and think. The different disciplines of psychology described below are thus extremely wide-ranging and examining these can give you a good idea about what psychology is, and what you are likely to learn if you decide to study the subject.
**Abnormal psychology**: this is the study of people who are different from the ‘normal’ range in a population and who exhibit abnormal behaviour. Much hinges, of course, on what exactly is meant by ‘abnormal’. This speciality is focused on research and treatment of a variety of mental disorders and is linked to psychotherapy and clinical psychology. Clinical psychology is the applied field of abnormal psychology that attempts to assess, understand and treat psychological conditions and mental disorders in clinical practice (such as hospital settings), although clinical psychologists are unlikely to use the term ‘abnormal’ when they refer to their patients.
**Neuropsychology**: sometimes called clinical neuropsychology, neuropsychology studies the structure of the brain and its functions, as they relate to specific psychological processes and particular behaviours. This area is closely linked to neuroscience and uses tools such as MRI and PET scans to look at brain injury or brain abnormalities. It thus specializes in looking at how studies of brain injury and disease can shed light on normal as well as abnormal functioning.
Neuropsychologists often work in research settings (universities, laboratories and research institutions), although they may also be found in clinical settings (involved in assessing or treating patients with neuropsychological problems), forensic settings (assessing criminals, for example) or, occasionally, in industry (where their neuropsychological knowledge might be applied to product design or research for drug efficacy).

**Clinical psychology**: this field is focused on the assessment, diagnosis and treatment of mental health problems. Clinical psychology tends to be underpinned by one of several main theoretical approaches:
- **The cognitive behavioural perspective**: this approach to clinical psychology developed from the behavioural and cognitive schools of thought, so involves examining how a client’s feelings, behaviours and thoughts interact.
- **The psychodynamic approach**: this perspective was developed by the psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud, who believed that the unconscious mind played a central role in our behaviour. Techniques such as free association can be used to investigate the client’s underlying, unconscious processes that may influence their behaviour.
- **The humanistic perspective**: this approach has its roots in the work of humanist thinkers such as Abraham Maslow and Carl Rogers. This perspective looks at the client holistically and helps people overcome their problems by using approaches such as self-actualization.