# Telling a Compelling Story

So far, we focused quite a bit on data and we also saw how to create compelling visuals. But how about a narrative? How can we build a good narrative to help people understand and be persuaded by the data and the visuals? Every compelling story, from novels to movies to data analysis, typically has four key parts. Setup, buildup, climax, and conclusion. To create an impact, your data story should incorporate these elements. Let's look at them one by one. As with any good story, we should start our story with a hook. Something to get the audience interested in following along. Frequently, these hooks are questions derived from curiosity. Is there a sudden change? Are we missing an opportunity? What should we expect moving forward? What we want to convey in the setup is the theme of the story. It could be that there is an issue or concern that needs to be addressed, or an opportunity to be seized. For our example hook, suppose that we notice a sudden dip in Inu and Neku's sales for the last couple of months. An obvious and compelling hook is why? What could be causing this downturn? After we've set up the story, we want to create a build up. Build up is where the story unfolds. It's here that we describe the steps taken in investigating the hook from the setup. We also want to communicate the findings from our investigations. The actions taken that lead us to the key findings are particularly important. The key finding is the insight from our analysis that has the greatest explanatory power. In our example, after some data exploration, we realized that the sales figures are from multiple channels. They can be broken up into Internet, wholesale, and retail. It looks like the change in sales is stemming from our Internet sales. We then investigated the web data and found that while Internet sales numbers went down, the number of customers visiting the online store did not. Digging further, we discovered that for Internet customers, there was a high abandonment rate of shopping carts, meaning many customers never checked out even though they had items in their cart. This appears to have started at the same time as the downturn started. So that would be our key finding. Online shopping cart abandonment rates increased during the downturn. If this was a mystery story, the climax happens when the villain is unmasked. For us, it's when we explain the hook's root cause with our key finding. Ideally, this is where the audience's light bulb goes off. If you engaged with the audience adequately, they should now understand the dynamic between the hook and the cause and want to act on your insight. In our story, it's strange that 92% of customers abandoned their cards while in the process of making a purchase. This didn't happen in prior months or years. It's at this point that we uncover the fact that customers abandoned their cards due to our lack of inventory for the products that they want to buy. If we don't have the product in stock, of course our customers can't buy it. Consequently, we received no sales for those products. Now we finish the story. If there is action that needs to be taken to remedy the issue, it should be revealed at this point. We should also discuss the cause if we have an idea of what it is. Going back to our example with Inu and Neku, now that we've uncovered the cause for the decline in sales, how do we fix it? Well, if we work to increase our stock of in demand products, we should be able to reverse the downward sales trend. If the products were in stock, our sales would have likely looked much better and the decline wouldn't have happened.

Should be mentioned that you don't always need to tell a nice and neat story when interpreting data. But the most impactful and meaningful discoveries tend to. When the insights are hard to understand or when the impact on your business is large, storytelling with data is essential. Expect an underlying story when data shows something unexpected, unpleasant, complex, costly, or especially surprising. These situations tend to point to a good data story waiting to be told.