
In your career as a data analyst, you'll encounter all kinds of data analysis projects with wildly different data sources, methods, and business goals. However, they'll all have some common elements that allow you to organize them. Therefore, when you first approach a data analysis project, it's good to have a framework that helps you to structure your approach. This is where the OSEMN framework comes in. I pronounce it as awesome, but it refers to the 0-S-E-M-N framework. The OSEMN framework was originally described by Hilary Mason and Chris Wiggins to help break down data analytics projects. OSEMN refers to five stages: obtain, scrub, explore, model, and interpret. These stages aren't so different from what we already talked about in data analytics definition. It's just a neat way to capture these stages. When you keep this framework in mind, it will be easier to break up large data analytics tasks into smaller pieces. I'll briefly explain what each stage means, and then we will look at each stage in a lot more detail in the next videos in this course. In the first stage of the OSEMN framework, you will obtain your data. Depending on your goal and the type of business question you're hoping to answer, your data might be obtained from internal sources like your sales data, for instance, or your data might come from other sources like government databases or financial market data. Sometimes it might be obvious where your data will come from, but in some cases, this step might involve some creativity and research on your part to figure it out. You might need to explore whether the data that could help you answer your questions even exist or whether you need to generate your own data by doing customer interviews or by observing and recording people's behavior. Then we have the scrubs stage where you clean the data to make it more usable. Scrubbing the data is all about preparing your dataset and doing this well will help you to afford problems later on. Tasks like correcting data formats and evaluating how to deal with missing data points are part of this stage. The next stage is where you will explore the data, searching for interesting patterns and statistics that standout. You do that by categorizing your data and visualizing it in some basic charts to better understand what your data is telling you. In the explore stage, you're like a detective searching for patterns, trends, or anomalies just beneath the surface. After that, we will model the data in an attempt to generate predictions and insights. Modeling is where you will use a statistical or mathematical approach to help you better understand the patterns in the data and further analyze them. We will explore this in a lot more detail in this program and you'll find that there are many models that are easy for data analysts to apply and that can generate a detail of insights. Finally, you'll interpret your results, building a better understanding of the situation at hand. In this stage, you will build visualizations of the data, stories, and presentations to help others understand the results of your analysis.

The OSEMN framework is just one of a few popular frameworks for data analysis projects. Although there are some differences between the different frameworks, they all cover the same basic steps because OSEMN is simple and flexible, it's a great choice for data analytics projects. I found it to be helpful when I'm structuring the projects I got involved in. In the next few weeks, we will delve deeper into each stage of the OSEMN framework. Now, let's go to our next video.