
Data visualization is crucial to any marketing analyst. It doesn't matter if you found a formula to create a perfect ad campaign or solved world hunger. If you cannot communicate results of your analyses to the people who make decisions in your organization, your data means nothing. You can try to show your spreadsheets or raw data, but often the person you are reporting to does not have the background to understand it. Showing a single clear visualization can explain more than a long-winded speech. There are several ways to create visualizations. You can make them in a spreadsheet or directly in Python by using programming codes. But mostly, marketing analysts use software that is specifically designed for creating visualizations like Power BI, or Qlik and Tableau. We will cover how to create visualizations in Tableau later in this course. For now, I just want to show you some examples of visualizations so you know what they can do. When we think about visualizing data, there are probably a few common charts that come to mind, like bar charts, pie charts, line graphs, and so on. These simple graphs can be very helpful to explain what's going on in a set of data. But there are also some less common ways of displaying data that can be incredibly powerful, because they capture data in an intuitive way. Let's look at a few examples. Tableau has an area on its website where people upload their visualizations to Tableau Public, and Tableau Public publishes a Viz of the Day with some of the most remarkable visualizations. Note that most of these are fully interactive dashboards, and many of them have several pages of visualizations. So what you're seeing here is only the tip of the iceberg. Definitely worth checking out. There are visualizations on every topic. Here's a visualization of tweets celebrating International Women's Day, creating a stunning visual that gets the reader's attention. This is a visualization reporting Google Trends data to show what people were interested in through 2020 and allowing you to capitalize on marketing opportunities or even try to predict the next trend. Perhaps you would like to know about trends in holiday consumer spending and see functional market data in action. Or you may want to trace the orbits of Earth and Venus for eight years, which looks at a data in an original way and creates a stunning visual. No matter the topic, visualization can be a powerful tool that every marketing analyst should have. If you're interested, you should check back with the Viz of the Day gallery regularly at public. tableau.com/gallery.