
This brings us to the end of the fourth week. Thanks for hanging in there. Having a solid foundational understanding of privacy protection is important for us marketers and marketing analysts. In this week, we gave you an overview of what privacy means to consumers, to an advertiser and to a regulator. Let's recap what you've learned this week. Databased advertising is effective and thus attractive for advertisers. When executed well, database ads are also more relevant and useful for people. This makes much of the content we enjoy cheaper and totally free. With that knowledge, we explored how to put the consumer in charge of their data and how to build and maintain trust. We also learned about the difference between first, second, and third party data and how an advertiser needs to take responsibility for safe guarding data. We looked at a larger advertising ecosystem and all the sections of that interconnected web too. We reviewed regulations that have been put in place to make sure users can access and control their information. We discussed the most prominent loss, GDPR, CCPA and COPA, and we had a look at industry self-regulation and company data policies. This week also ends this course. Congratulations for finishing this first part of the Facebook Marketing Analytics Professional Certificate. Now we have a good foundational understanding of what marketing analytics is and you already have some great marketing analytics tools in your toolbox. In the next course in this program, we'll dive into data analytics for marketing. We'll start working with numbers, get our hands dirty in spreadsheets, and you'll learn to write a few lines of code that will prove incredibly helpful. We'll structure it all around data analytics framework that you will be able to apply over and over again. It's going to be awesome. I look forward to seeing you in the next course and hope you enjoyed this one. Congratulations again.