
When confronted with a data analytics question, you might have different data sources to turn to. In this video, I'll give you a glimpse at what exists. Of course, I won't cover all the sources of data, but I will help you think about how to categorize the data available, which helps to explore different routes to obtaining your data. I'm going to categorize the data sources I cover in this video into three different buckets. Freely accessible, open-source databases, data specific to your company, which is not freely accessible, and data you intentionally collect to solve your problem. Depending on your analysis objective, you might be able to find the data you need in databases that are free and open for all to use, like government websites and open source repositories. These resources provide a wealth of information and can be accessed easily. They contain all kinds of socioeconomic data, like population demographics, household income data, education data, and so on. Government institutions provide reliable and up to date data, so if the data you're looking for is part of these databases, you should feel comfortable using them. Let's explore an example. Eurostat is a database that provides access to official statistics from the European Union and is an excellent resource for economic and social data. You can access data for different countries over many years, filter it, and download the specific data you need. Eurostat offers a data browser for easier filtering and analysis. You can access all this online for free. The OECD is another organization that provides a large catalog of databases you can use for free. OECD stands for Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, and it's an international organization that works to build better policies for better lives. Like Eurostat, they offer access to up-to-date data on a variety of socioeconomic topics. You can browse, filter, and download the data to use for your own analysis. Other examples of online sources include the World Bank, the United Nations, and the US Census Bureau. These resources can provide a wealth of information on a range of topics, including demographics, economics, and social issues. I have added a reading later in this lesson with references to these and other free data sources. Of course, this isn't an exhaustive list, but I suggest you check out the data available and take a look at the many different graphs and analysis these organizations offer to get a sense of what's possible when you delve into the world of data analytics. And if you're confronted with an analytics question for which you don't immediately know of available free data, I suggest you do an online search to see whether the data you're looking for happens to be available. Aside from large free databases, you might also have access to data that's specific to the company you work for. This data might have varying degrees of accessibility depending on the nature of the information, and it will not be openly available to the public. Company specific data can take a couple of different forms. For instance, you might have data that your company stores in a specific system that registers all sales in other words, data that the company itself collects. Or you might have access to databases your company subscribes to. Let's say you work for a company that sells clothes online through a website. The company might use software like Google Analytics to monitor how people use the website, which pages they visit, how often they visit, which products they add to their shopping cart, and so on. But the data collected with such software is specific to your company and cannot be accessed by data analysts in other companies. We'll talk more about Google Analytics later in this program. It's used by many companies with an online presence to better understand what happens on their websites and mobile applications. Another example of a proprietary data system could be the data that a telephone company has about its customers, like how many calls they make, how many are local or international, or how much data their customers use, and so on. If you were an analyst at a telephone company, you might have access to that data, but it's not for public consumption. Aside from data that companies collect themselves, they will often also subscribe to relevant databases for their industry. They might do that because they want to understand the competition or just because it helps them to do business. You might have heard of Nielsen data, data about people's media usage habits, like how much TV they watch, which channels they tune into and which programs they watch, for how long. They also monitor which websites people visit, how much time they spend there, and so on. They track the behavior of people who agreed to be tracked, and then they provide that data to subscribers. TV channels or websites will use the data to inform their advertisers. In their sales pitches to brands of sneakers, they might refer to how many sports fans are watching their programs, for instance, enticing the sneaker brand to advertise with them. Another popular data product you might have heard of is the Bloomberg terminal, a database system that provides financial companies with access to important financial information at a cost. These are just a few examples of databases companies can buy or subscribe to. Depending on your industry, there are many more. My advice, explore the different databases your company has access to so you understand what data is available to you. It will help you when you're updating data to answer your analytics questions. Of course, there might be instances when the data you need to answer an important business question isn't available, and in that case, you might need to intentionally collect the right data. This could mean that you create a questionnaire, that you organize interviews with customers, or that you observe people while they're using your product and record what you see. This will, of course, require some planning, but it could help to get you the exact data you need to answer your questions. Creating a survey or a questionnaire to collect data is a very common method for data collection, and there are many easily accessible tools you can use to help you with this. SurveyMonkey is one search tool that you can use to create a questionnaire to help you collect the data you need. They even have a few templates to get you started. Google Forms is another tool that lets you collect data quickly with online questionnaires. There are many more ways to collect data you need. As we progress through this program, we will highlight a few others. When you're starting your analytics project, take some time to reflect on how you will obtain the data. Research whether free data sources are available, check the data sources your company has access to, and if the right data isn't available, create a plan to collect the data you need.