---
tags:
  - supply-chain-management
---
# Containers on a Train

[SOUND] Containers on a train. Intermodal means that we take a container and put it on a train such as the one moving behind me. One of the most exciting concepts in transportation is intermodal. There we combine train and truck to use both modes most efficiently. We gain an advantage by using truck for pickup and delivery. And we get to use rail for the long haul, where it is much cheaper because rail is very fuel efficient and cost effective. The speed advantage a truck has over short distances does not apply to long distances. Rail is not that much slower but it is much cheaper. And we can then, at the destination, move onto another truck for final delivery. This form of intermodal transportation maximizes the advantages of one mode, and minimizes the disadvantages of the other mode. So, we use trucking where it is more efficient. We use rail, where it's more efficient. And, the whole transportation overall becomes cheaper and just as convenient as before. As a basic rule, whenever we use containerized freight, we can actually seamlessly transfer from one mode to another. Rail infrastructure actually pretty exciting. Not only do you have railyards where we have trucks driving in. We take the container, put them on the rail car directly, but we also have the trains themself. And I actually spent all of ten minutes learning how to drive the train. I broke the speed limit twice, so I'm not sure you want me driving your train, but I can do it. [SOUND] The other advantage that rail has is that we can use double-stack containers to double the capacity of the train. So there's a lot of innovation even in rail which is a very old form of transportation. [NOISE]